In this video let us learn about cycle sort.
The cyclic sort is a useful pattern to solve the
problems involving arrays containing numbers in a given range
and finding the missing or duplicate numbers
So how to identify cyclic sort pattern in a problem?
These problems mostly deal with arrays containing numbers
in a given range and ask us to find duplicate or
missing elements in that given range
See some examples for such problems
Given an array containing n distinct numbers from zero to n
find a one missing number from the array. See another one.
Given an array of n+1 integers
where each integer is between one and n. Only one integer
will be present two times.
Find that one duplicate element.
Here if we analyse the problem statements, we can identify the
cyclic sort pattern easily
See all the problems are dealing with an array of
a given range and ask us to find the missing
or duplicate element from it. So we can solve these
kind of problems easily using the cyclic sort pattern
So in the next video we will learn about cyclic sort.